
SELECT DISTINCT f1.x, f1.y
FROM functions f1
JOIN functions f2
ON f1.x = f2.y AND f2.x = f1.y
GROUP BY f1.x, f1.y
HAVING COUNT(f1.x) > 1 OR f1.x < f1.y
ORDER BY f1.x;


##Explanation:
SELECT DISTINCT f1.x, f1.y:
SELECT: We're choosing which columns to return in the result set.
DISTINCT: Ensures that duplicate rows (rows with identical x and y values) are removed from the result. This means each pair of x and y will appear only once in the output.
FROM functions f1:
We're querying a table named functions and giving it an alias f1. This alias will be used to refer to this table in the rest of the query.
JOIN functions f2:
We join the same table functions again, but this time, we give it the alias f2. This allows us to compare rows from the same table with themselves or each other.
ON f1.x = f2.y AND f2.x = f1.y:
JOIN Condition: This specifies how rows from f1 and f2 should match:
f1.x must equal f2.y
f2.x must equal f1.y
Essentially, this condition is looking for symmetric relationships where x and y are interchangeable between rows.
GROUP BY f1.x, f1.y:
Groups the result set by the x and y values from f1. This means that for each unique combination of x and y from f1, we'll have one group.
HAVING COUNT(f1.x) > 1 OR f1.x < f1.y:
HAVING: Used with GROUP BY to filter groups rather than individual rows. 
COUNT(f1.x) > 1: This condition will keep groups where the same x and y combination appears more than once in the dataset.
OR f1.x < f1.y: This will keep groups where x is less than y, which ensures we consider asymmetric relationships where x and y are not equal but x is smaller than y.
ORDER BY f1.x:
Sorts the result set by the x values from f1 in ascending order.

Simplified Concept:
This query:
Looks for pairs (x, y) in the functions table where x could be y in another row (symmetry).
It then filters these pairs to only include those that either:
Appear more than once in the table, or
Where x is less than y for uniqueness in asymmetric cases.
Finally, it removes any duplicates and sorts the output by x.

This could be useful in contexts like finding all pairs of numbers where one number can be transformed into another in the dataset, considering both symmetry and frequency or order.
